# rMPD #
rMPD is a webclient for the Music Player Daemon written entirely in Ruby.
It is based on [http://github.com/jeffayle/librmpd2](librmpd2), and uses
[Famfamfam's Silk Icon Set](http://www.famfamfam.com/lab/icons/silk/).

## License ##
The bulk of the program is licensed under the
[ISC License](https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/ISC_license)
with the exception of librmpd2 and the icons.

See COPYING for more information.

## Installation ##
To install, you must have a working ruby installation and a webserver with CGI
running. For the HTTP streaming feature to work, the CGI script must have read
access to your music library.

Make sure your webserver is configured to run .rb files as CGI scripts, then
edit config.rb. 

## Usage ##
Once installed, point your browser to wherever the scripts are accessible from,
this main view should display your playlist and a few extra buttons. The
control section will allow you to control the player-- skip, pause, stop, et
cetera.

The browse music link will show you all the folders in the root directory
of your music library. You can browse the subdirectories and songs in there.
Each song has a link to add it to the playlist and to stream it.

## Tools ##
At the bottom of the page of the main page (playlist view) and the bottom of
the directory view is a Tools section. Tools are simply scripts in the Tools/
and DirectoryTools/ directories, except that the extension is not displayed
and underscores are displayed as spaces.

To write your own tool, simply create a new CGI script in one of those
directories. Tools are given no extra information, but directory tools are
given the directory to work on in the query string.

## Dependencies ##
You will need `rubygems` and the following gems installed to use rMPD:

- mime-types
